A giant, golden statue of King Bhallala Deva is being erected in capital city of Mahishmati. Hundreds of slaves pull the multi-tonne monument, in an effort to erect it. One slave, old and exhausted, collapses and there's a domino effect. The half-raised statue starts falling, threatening the lives of a cluster of commoners who will be crushed if it falls to the ground. Just when it seems they're doomed, the statue halts in its descent. One man has picked up the fallen rope. One man with crazy biceps. The gathered crowd roars its thanks. Mr. Crazy Biceps grins and tugs the statue a little closer to standing upright. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not Sparta. This is Bahubali. 

Director SS Rajamouli has done some remarkable things with this monumental film, which is the first of a two-part tale. One, he's made a film that actually gets better after intermission. Two, he's given us a new epic with Bahubali. Yes, the cast is dressed like characters in Amar Chitra Katha, but this isn't a reinterpretation of Mahabharata or a retelling of Ramayana. V. Vijayendra Prasad has written a whole new and original epic that doesn't borrow too obviously from our favourite Hindu epics. Here, we see (mostly) new gods and new heroes who are not bland replicas of mythological heroes.
Our hero is Shiva (Prabhas), a prince who is smuggled out of his kingdom and raised by a different tribe. He grows up not knowing his lineage, but acquires some serious rock-climbing skills. If his wooing techniques are any indication, lurking under his hulking physique is an aspiring tattoo and make-up artist. In the first half of Bahubali, we see Shiva scampering up a mighty waterfall and pursuing the feisty Avanthika (Tamannaah), who is part of a rebel group that lives in a hideout, high up in the mountains. She is possibly the worst assassin in the history of all time, given how she doesn't notice minor details like Shiva's bulked-up self lying on a branch above her, painting paisleys on her shoulder. Then again, you know what they say — love is blind.